decidim-aws-amazon-linux-centos.md, before:

Install Decidim on Amazon Linux 2 AMI 
===============================

These instruction should work in any clean installation of Amazon Linux 2, the default AWS EC2 Linux distribution. You may have to adapt some of the step in other cases.

## 1. Setup a clean server

__To do: instructions to setup amazon ec2 linux 2 instance.__

From now on, I'll assume you have created a non-root user (with sudo capabilities) named `decidim` (but use whatever you want) and you are logged into your machine, so you will see a bash prompt similar to this:

```bash
ssh decidim@my-decidim.org

       __|  __|_  )
       _|  (     /   Amazon Linux 2 AMI
      ___|\___|___|

https://aws.amazon.com/amazon-linux-2/
[decidim@decidim:~$]
```

Great, we have our server up and running. Now we install the required packages before installing decidim:

## 2. Installing necessary software

First, let's keep our system up to date:

```bash
sudo yum update
sudo yum upgrade
sudo yum autoremove
```

Now, configure the proper timezone for your server:

Check the current timezone by using the `date` command. It probably is set in UTC.

```bash
cd /usr/share/zoneinfo
```
Explore the different folders, untill you find the Timezone for your location. For me it was `/usr/share/zoneinfo/Mexico/General`

Make a backup of your current timezone file, and replace it with a symlink of the new one:

```bash
sudo mv /etc/localtime /etc/localtime.bak
sudo ln -s /usr/share/zoneinfo/Mexico/General /etc/localtime
```

You can find more information about CentOS timezone [here](https://chrisjean.com/change-timezone-in-centos/)

Then, install some required packages:

```bash
sudo yum install autoconf bison gcc gcc-c++ glibc-devel make openssl-devel libyaml-devel readline-devel zlib-devel ncurses-devel libffi-devel gdbm-devel
```
Now, let's install ruby, by using the [rbenv](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-install-ruby-on-rails-with-rbenv-on-ubuntu-18-04) method.


These are the commands you need to run if you follow the guide:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/rbenv/rbenv.git ~/.rbenv
echo 'export PATH="$HOME/.rbenv/bin:$PATH"' >> ~/.bashrc
echo 'eval "$(rbenv init -)"' >> ~/.bashrc
source ~/.bashrc
```

Now you should check if you have rbenv correctly installed, running the command `type rbenv` should give you this answer:

```bash
decidim@decidim:~$ type rbenv
rbenv is a function
rbenv ()
{
    local command;
    command="${1:-}";
    if [ "$#" -gt 0 ]; then
        shift;
    fi;
    case "$command" in
        rehash | shell)
            eval "$(rbenv "sh-$command" "$@")"
        ;;
        *)
            command rbenv "$command" "$@"
        ;;
    esac
}
```

We still need to install ruby-build to simplify the installation of ruby:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/rbenv/ruby-build.git ~/.rbenv/plugins/ruby-build
```

At this point, you should be able to run the command `rbenv install -l` that will give you all ruby versions available:

```bash
decidim@decidim:~$ rbenv install -l
Available versions:
  1.8.5-p52
  1.8.5-p113
...
  topaz-dev
  truffleruby-1.0.0-rc2
  truffleruby-1.0.0-rc3
```

We are going to use version 2.5.1, so run these commands:

```bash
rbenv install 2.5.1
rbenv global 2.5.1
```
Now you can verify we have everything in order by running the command `ruby -v`:

```bash
decidim@decidim:~$ ruby -v
ruby 2.5.1p57 (2018-03-29 revision 63029) [x86_64-linux]
```

If everything is ok, we need to setup Gems, the package manager for Ruby, after that we will be ready to install Decidim.

To setup Gem, execute:

```bash
echo "gem: --no-document" > ~/.gemrc
gem install bundler
```

Again, you can test if everything is ok so far by running the command `gem env home`

```bash
decidim@decidim:~$ gem env home
/home/decidim/.rbenv/versions/2.5.1/lib/ruby/gems/2.5.0
```

Great, now we have the basic server setup in place, next step is to install Decidim.

## 3. Installing Decidim

Decidim uses Postgresql as a SQL database, we are going to install it in this machine (more advanced configurations will use a separate server for the database):

```bash
sudo apt install -y postgresql libpq-dev
```

We also need NodeJS as a dependency for the decidim generator, in ubuntu 18.04 it's fine to install from the repositories (we also install imageMagick, used by Decidim):

```bash
sudo apt install -y nodejs imagemagick
```
Now, we use the decidim generator to create our application. Note that you still need the package `libpg-dev` in order tu run the decidim generator (in case you install postgress in another server).

First, install the gem Decidim (this may take a while):

```bash
gem install decidim
```
Now, run the generator to create our app:

```bash
decidim decidim-app
```

At this point, we have created a new folder in `~/decidim-app` with our code. We need to setup the database now.

To do that, first we create the user and password in the database:

```bash
sudo -u postgres psql -c "CREATE USER decidim_app WITH SUPERUSER CREATEDB NOCREATEROLE PASSWORD 'Password1'"
```
Choose a good password like I did ;)

With the user created, it's time for configure Decidim to use these credentials.

Because we don't want to directly store this sensitive data in the code itself, we are going to use an additional YAML file that will store all the secrets in one place. If, in the future, we want to create a Git repository with our application, we will exclude this file from the version control.

In order to translate this file to the config system in Decidim, we are going to include the Ruby Gem "figaro" in our app to take care of it.

First, let's change to the decidim's folder:

```bash
cd ~/decidim-app
```

Then, let's edit the `Gemfile`:
```bash
nano Gemfile
```
We will modify that file to add a "production" section with our extra Gems, we add this line before the first `group` declaration:

```ruby
gem "figaro"
```

And we will create another `group` section with the production settings that will also install some additional gems needed later on.

Add at the end of the `Gemfile`:

```ruby
group :production do
  gem "passenger"
  gem 'delayed_job_active_record'
  gem "daemons"
end
```

The whole `Gemfile` should look similar to this:

```ruby
# frozen_string_literal: true

source "https://rubygems.org"

ruby RUBY_VERSION

gem "decidim", "0.14.0"
# gem "decidim-consultations", "0.14.0"
# gem "decidim-initiatives", "0.14.0"

gem "bootsnap", "~> 1.3"

gem "puma", "~> 3.0"
gem "uglifier", "~> 4.1"

gem "faker", "~> 1.8"

gem "figaro"

group :development, :test do
  gem "byebug", "~> 10.0", platform: :mri
  gem "decidim-dev", "0.14.0"
end

group :development do
  gem "letter_opener_web", "~> 1.3"
  gem "listen", "~> 3.1"
  gem "spring", "~> 2.0"
  gem "spring-watcher-listen", "~> 2.0"
  gem "web-console", "~> 3.5"
end

group :production do
  gem "passenger"
  gem 'delayed_job_active_record'
  gem "daemons"
end
```
After that we need to update our app to include the extra gems, run the next command (inside the app folder):

```bash
bundle install
```
Now, it's time to create the configuration file with our custom values. We already have the database credentials (we've created the user before) and we need a random string that will be used by Decidim to encrypt cookies and other security stuff.

Let's generate a random string by executing the command `rake secret` inside the app folder:

```bash
decidim@decidim:~/decidim-app$ cd ~/decidim-app
decidim@decidim:~/decidim-app$ rake secret
e2418a1987378e36f18740d25f0360a18099a5caa5d04700ea3336d9fdefadc5362dc885a7a15f671e81f7d77bc98fa4d8abfd048f829a78d7ffd33cd8b4b287
```
Copy that generated string and edit the new config file:

```bash
nano ~/decidim-app/config/application.yml
```

Paste inside this content:

```yaml
DATABASE_URL: postgres://decidim_app:Password1@localhost/decidim_prod

SECRET_KEY_BASE: e2418a1987378e36f18740d25f0360a18099a5caa5d04700ea3336d9fdefadc5362dc885a7a15f671e81f7d77bc98fa4d8abfd048f829a78d7ffd33cd8b4b287
```

> **Notes:**
> - I've named my database `decidim_prod`, change that value to whatever you want for your decidim app.
> - Be aware that line with the with the SECRET_KEY_BASE keyword is only ONE line and you MUST put your own generated secret (the one generated with the  `rake secret` command)
>
> **👉 Going pro** (optional):
> - Now it's a good time to initialize your installation as a GIT repository.
> - This will allow to keep track of your changes and revert them is something goes wrong.
> - This is optional, basically you need to execute:
> ```bash
> cd ~/decidim-app
> git init .
> git commit -m "Initial commit. Generated with Decidim 0.X https://decidim.org"
> ```
> - After that you should create commits everytime you make a relevant change.

At this point Decidim should be able to start working. We need to initialize and update the database by doing this:

```bash
cd ~/decidim-app
bin/rails db:create RAILS_ENV=production
bin/rails assets:precompile db:migrate RAILS_ENV=production
```

The response to the second command should look something like this (quite long), this command compiles the static assets to prepare our app for production and migrates the database:

```bash
decidim@decidim:~/decidim-app$ bin/rails db:create RAILS_ENV=production
Created database 'decidim_prod'
decidim@decidim:~/decidim-app$ bin/rails assets:precompile db:migrate RAILS_ENV=production
Yarn executable was not detected in the system.
Download Yarn at https://yarnpkg.com/en/docs/install
I, [2018-07-16T13:10:56.442340 #32755]  INFO -- : Writing /home/decidim/decidim-app/public/assets/decidim/api/docs-3ca85e11b4f676d392a15494a0eb66962aaf08382c60a09ae3f1d7a6806a59ae.js

...

== 20180713145001 DeviseCreateDecidimUsers: migrating =========================
-- adapter_name()
   -> 0.0000s
-- adapter_name()
   -> 0.0000s
-- adapter_name()
   -> 0.0000s
-- create_table(:decidim_users, {:id=>:integer})
   -> 0.0056s
...
```

Now we are going to log into the Decidim console Rails app and create our first admin user:

```bash
bin/rails console -e production
```

A new prompt will appear:

```
Loading production environment (Rails 5.2.0)
irb(main):001:0>
```

In there, write these **4** lines and press enter (put your email and some secure password, you will use these credentials to login into Decidim super-admin:

```ruby
email = "my-admin@email"
password = "<a secure password>"
user = Decidim::System::Admin.new(email: email, password: password, password_confirmation: password)
user.save!
```

Write `quit` or press *CTRL+D* to exit the rails console.

If everything went fine, a very basic Decidim installation is ready to be shown to the world. We only are one step away from the glory, that is to configure an http web server to proxy our ruby application and handle the user petitions.

## 4. Installing Nginx

As a web server we will use Nginx. To install Nginx execute the next commands (the first installs nginx, the others enables the public ports in the firewall, otherwise our webserver won't be accessible):

```bash
sudo apt -y install nginx
sudo ufw allow http
sudo ufw allow https
```

The last 2 commands are to allow the firewall (if we have it activated) let pass the http/https connection to the server. If you don't use a firewall, you can skip them.

Nginx is a very fast and efficient web server but it doesn't handle Ruby applications by itself. We need and intermediary gateway for that, we will use [Passenger](https://www.phusionpassenger.com/library/walkthroughs/deploy/ruby/ownserver/nginx/oss/bionic/install_passenger.html).

I'll summarize here all the commands to [install Passenger in Ubuntu 18.04](https://www.phusionpassenger.com/library/walkthroughs/deploy/ruby/ownserver/nginx/oss/bionic/install_passenger.html) (follow the link to get into details):

```bash
sudo apt install -y dirmngr gnupg
sudo apt-key adv --keyserver hkp://keyserver.ubuntu.com:80 --recv-keys 561F9B9CAC40B2F7
sudo apt install -y apt-transport-https ca-certificates
sudo sh -c 'echo deb https://oss-binaries.phusionpassenger.com/apt/passenger bionic main > /etc/apt/sources.list.d/passenger.list'
sudo apt update
sudo apt install -y libnginx-mod-http-passenger
```

Next is to activate passenger, execute this (it's one line):

```bash
if [ ! -f /etc/nginx/modules-enabled/50-mod-http-passenger.conf ]; then sudo ln -s /usr/share/nginx/modules-available/mod-http-passenger.load /etc/nginx/modules-enabled/50-mod-http-passenger.conf ; fi
```

You can check if the file is created successfully by using `ls` on that file, it should be something similar to this:

```bash
decidim@decidim:~/decidim-app$ sudo ls /etc/nginx/conf.d/mod-http-passenger.conf
/etc/nginx/conf.d/mod-http-passenger.conf
```

For additional checks, restart nginx:

```bash
sudo service nginx restart
```

If you run the command `passenger-config validate-install` it should give you an answer like this:

```
decidim@decidim:~/decidim-app$ sudo /usr/bin/passenger-config validate-install
What would you like to validate?
Use <space> to select.
If the menu doesn't display correctly, press '!'

 ‣ ⬢  Passenger itself
   ⬡  Apache

-------------------------------------------------------------------------

 * Checking whether this Passenger install is in PATH... ✓
 * Checking whether there are no other Passenger installations... ✓

Everything looks good. :-)
```

If the output complains about having 2 copies of passenger installed, then passenger may be using the wrong copy of it.

Let's ensure everything is ok by editing the file `/etc/nginx/conf.d/mod-http-passenger.conf`:

```bash
sudo nano /etc/nginx/conf.d/mod-http-passenger.conf
```

And be sure that the line that contains `passenger_ruby` points to our `.rbenv` ruby folder, the whole file should look like this:

```nginx
### Begin automatically installed Phusion Passenger config snippet ###
passenger_root /usr/lib/ruby/vendor_ruby/phusion_passenger/locations.ini;
passenger_ruby /home/decidim/.rbenv/shims/ruby;
### End automatically installed Phusion Passenger config snippet ###
```

Once Nginx & Passenger are installed, we'll configure nginx to point http(s) request to our copy of Decidim. To do that, we need to create an Nginx configuration file and setup a new virtual host with our domain (ie: my-decidim.org):

Create/edit the new Nginx config file:

```bash
sudo nano /etc/nginx/sites-enabled/decidim.conf
```

Paste this inside (replace `my-decidim.org` with your own domain):

```nginx
server {
    listen 80;
    listen [::]:80 ipv6only=on;

    server_name my-decidim.org;
    client_max_body_size 32M;

    passenger_enabled on;
    passenger_ruby /home/decidim/.rbenv/shims/ruby;

    rails_env    production;
    root         /home/decidim/decidim-app/public;
}
```

Restart Nginx now:

```bash
sudo service nginx restart
```

**Done!** Decidim should be working now on our server, if you point your browser to your domain (ie: my-decidim.org) it will redirect you to the system admin interface (which is the web interface that will allow to create your first organization):

![System login](assets/decidim-system.png)

You can login into this administrator using the credentials you created when logged into the Rails console (`my-admin@email`).

But before to do that, there are somethings that should be configured, because, right now, our system is not capable yet of sending emails (which is a basic thing).

Continue this guide by setting up a [basic configuration](basic-config.md).

Commit message:

added git install and config

decidim-aws-amazon-linux-centos.md, after:

Install Decidim on Amazon Linux 2 AMI 
===============================

These instruction should work in any clean installation of Amazon Linux 2, the default AWS EC2 Linux distribution. You may have to adapt some of the step in other cases.

## 1. Setup a clean server

__To do: instructions to setup amazon ec2 linux 2 instance.__

From now on, I'll assume you have created a non-root user (with sudo capabilities) named `decidim` (but use whatever you want) and you are logged into your machine, so you will see a bash prompt similar to this:

```bash
ssh decidim@my-decidim.org

       __|  __|_  )
       _|  (     /   Amazon Linux 2 AMI
      ___|\___|___|

https://aws.amazon.com/amazon-linux-2/
[decidim@decidim:~$]
```

Great, we have our server up and running. Now we install the required packages before installing decidim:

## 2. Installing necessary software

First, let's keep our system up to date:

```bash
sudo yum update
sudo yum upgrade
sudo yum autoremove
```

Now, configure the proper timezone for your server:

Check the current timezone by using the `date` command. It probably is set in UTC.

```bash
cd /usr/share/zoneinfo
```
Explore the different folders, untill you find the Timezone for your location. For me it was `/usr/share/zoneinfo/Mexico/General`

Make a backup of your current timezone file, and replace it with a symlink of the new one:

```bash
sudo mv /etc/localtime /etc/localtime.bak
sudo ln -s /usr/share/zoneinfo/Mexico/General /etc/localtime
```

You can find more information about CentOS timezone [here](https://chrisjean.com/change-timezone-in-centos/)

Then, install some required packages:

```bash
sudo yum install autoconf bison gcc gcc-c++ glibc-devel make openssl-devel libyaml-devel readline-devel zlib-devel ncurses-devel libffi-devel gdbm-devel
```

Next, let's install and congigure git:

```bash
sudo yum install git
git --version
git config --global user.name "Your Name"
git config --global user.email "you@example.com"
git config --list
```

This configuration will save you the trouble of seeing an error message and having to revise commits after you submit them.


Now, let's install ruby, by using the [rbenv](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-install-ruby-on-rails-with-rbenv-on-ubuntu-18-04) method.


These are the commands you need to run if you follow the guide:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/rbenv/rbenv.git ~/.rbenv
echo 'export PATH="$HOME/.rbenv/bin:$PATH"' >> ~/.bashrc
echo 'eval "$(rbenv init -)"' >> ~/.bashrc
source ~/.bashrc
```

Now you should check if you have rbenv correctly installed, running the command `type rbenv` should give you this answer:

```bash
decidim@decidim:~$ type rbenv
rbenv is a function
rbenv ()
{
    local command;
    command="${1:-}";
    if [ "$#" -gt 0 ]; then
        shift;
    fi;
    case "$command" in
        rehash | shell)
            eval "$(rbenv "sh-$command" "$@")"
        ;;
        *)
            command rbenv "$command" "$@"
        ;;
    esac
}
```

We still need to install ruby-build to simplify the installation of ruby:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/rbenv/ruby-build.git ~/.rbenv/plugins/ruby-build
```

At this point, you should be able to run the command `rbenv install -l` that will give you all ruby versions available:

```bash
decidim@decidim:~$ rbenv install -l
Available versions:
  1.8.5-p52
  1.8.5-p113
...
  topaz-dev
  truffleruby-1.0.0-rc2
  truffleruby-1.0.0-rc3
```

We are going to use version 2.5.1, so run these commands:

```bash
rbenv install 2.5.1
rbenv global 2.5.1
```
Now you can verify we have everything in order by running the command `ruby -v`:

```bash
decidim@decidim:~$ ruby -v
ruby 2.5.1p57 (2018-03-29 revision 63029) [x86_64-linux]
```

If everything is ok, we need to setup Gems, the package manager for Ruby, after that we will be ready to install Decidim.

To setup Gem, execute:

```bash
echo "gem: --no-document" > ~/.gemrc
gem install bundler
```

Again, you can test if everything is ok so far by running the command `gem env home`

```bash
decidim@decidim:~$ gem env home
/home/decidim/.rbenv/versions/2.5.1/lib/ruby/gems/2.5.0
```

Great, now we have the basic server setup in place, next step is to install Decidim.

## 3. Installing Decidim

Decidim uses Postgresql as a SQL database, we are going to install it in this machine (more advanced configurations will use a separate server for the database):

```bash
sudo apt install -y postgresql libpq-dev
```

We also need NodeJS as a dependency for the decidim generator, in ubuntu 18.04 it's fine to install from the repositories (we also install imageMagick, used by Decidim):

```bash
sudo apt install -y nodejs imagemagick
```
Now, we use the decidim generator to create our application. Note that you still need the package `libpg-dev` in order tu run the decidim generator (in case you install postgress in another server).

First, install the gem Decidim (this may take a while):

```bash
gem install decidim
```
Now, run the generator to create our app:

```bash
decidim decidim-app
```

At this point, we have created a new folder in `~/decidim-app` with our code. We need to setup the database now.

To do that, first we create the user and password in the database:

```bash
sudo -u postgres psql -c "CREATE USER decidim_app WITH SUPERUSER CREATEDB NOCREATEROLE PASSWORD 'Password1'"
```
Choose a good password like I did ;)

With the user created, it's time for configure Decidim to use these credentials.

Because we don't want to directly store this sensitive data in the code itself, we are going to use an additional YAML file that will store all the secrets in one place. If, in the future, we want to create a Git repository with our application, we will exclude this file from the version control.

In order to translate this file to the config system in Decidim, we are going to include the Ruby Gem "figaro" in our app to take care of it.

First, let's change to the decidim's folder:

```bash
cd ~/decidim-app
```

Then, let's edit the `Gemfile`:
```bash
nano Gemfile
```
We will modify that file to add a "production" section with our extra Gems, we add this line before the first `group` declaration:

```ruby
gem "figaro"
```

And we will create another `group` section with the production settings that will also install some additional gems needed later on.

Add at the end of the `Gemfile`:

```ruby
group :production do
  gem "passenger"
  gem 'delayed_job_active_record'
  gem "daemons"
end
```

The whole `Gemfile` should look similar to this:

```ruby
# frozen_string_literal: true

source "https://rubygems.org"

ruby RUBY_VERSION

gem "decidim", "0.14.0"
# gem "decidim-consultations", "0.14.0"
# gem "decidim-initiatives", "0.14.0"

gem "bootsnap", "~> 1.3"

gem "puma", "~> 3.0"
gem "uglifier", "~> 4.1"

gem "faker", "~> 1.8"

gem "figaro"

group :development, :test do
  gem "byebug", "~> 10.0", platform: :mri
  gem "decidim-dev", "0.14.0"
end

group :development do
  gem "letter_opener_web", "~> 1.3"
  gem "listen", "~> 3.1"
  gem "spring", "~> 2.0"
  gem "spring-watcher-listen", "~> 2.0"
  gem "web-console", "~> 3.5"
end

group :production do
  gem "passenger"
  gem 'delayed_job_active_record'
  gem "daemons"
end
```
After that we need to update our app to include the extra gems, run the next command (inside the app folder):

```bash
bundle install
```
Now, it's time to create the configuration file with our custom values. We already have the database credentials (we've created the user before) and we need a random string that will be used by Decidim to encrypt cookies and other security stuff.

Let's generate a random string by executing the command `rake secret` inside the app folder:

```bash
decidim@decidim:~/decidim-app$ cd ~/decidim-app
decidim@decidim:~/decidim-app$ rake secret
e2418a1987378e36f18740d25f0360a18099a5caa5d04700ea3336d9fdefadc5362dc885a7a15f671e81f7d77bc98fa4d8abfd048f829a78d7ffd33cd8b4b287
```
Copy that generated string and edit the new config file:

```bash
nano ~/decidim-app/config/application.yml
```

Paste inside this content:

```yaml
DATABASE_URL: postgres://decidim_app:Password1@localhost/decidim_prod

SECRET_KEY_BASE: e2418a1987378e36f18740d25f0360a18099a5caa5d04700ea3336d9fdefadc5362dc885a7a15f671e81f7d77bc98fa4d8abfd048f829a78d7ffd33cd8b4b287
```

> **Notes:**
> - I've named my database `decidim_prod`, change that value to whatever you want for your decidim app.
> - Be aware that line with the with the SECRET_KEY_BASE keyword is only ONE line and you MUST put your own generated secret (the one generated with the  `rake secret` command)
>
> **👉 Going pro** (optional):
> - Now it's a good time to initialize your installation as a GIT repository.
> - This will allow to keep track of your changes and revert them is something goes wrong.
> - This is optional, basically you need to execute:
> ```bash
> cd ~/decidim-app
> git init .
> git commit -m "Initial commit. Generated with Decidim 0.X https://decidim.org"
> ```
> - After that you should create commits everytime you make a relevant change.

At this point Decidim should be able to start working. We need to initialize and update the database by doing this:

```bash
cd ~/decidim-app
bin/rails db:create RAILS_ENV=production
bin/rails assets:precompile db:migrate RAILS_ENV=production
```

The response to the second command should look something like this (quite long), this command compiles the static assets to prepare our app for production and migrates the database:

```bash
decidim@decidim:~/decidim-app$ bin/rails db:create RAILS_ENV=production
Created database 'decidim_prod'
decidim@decidim:~/decidim-app$ bin/rails assets:precompile db:migrate RAILS_ENV=production
Yarn executable was not detected in the system.
Download Yarn at https://yarnpkg.com/en/docs/install
I, [2018-07-16T13:10:56.442340 #32755]  INFO -- : Writing /home/decidim/decidim-app/public/assets/decidim/api/docs-3ca85e11b4f676d392a15494a0eb66962aaf08382c60a09ae3f1d7a6806a59ae.js

...

== 20180713145001 DeviseCreateDecidimUsers: migrating =========================
-- adapter_name()
   -> 0.0000s
-- adapter_name()
   -> 0.0000s
-- adapter_name()
   -> 0.0000s
-- create_table(:decidim_users, {:id=>:integer})
   -> 0.0056s
...
```

Now we are going to log into the Decidim console Rails app and create our first admin user:

```bash
bin/rails console -e production
```

A new prompt will appear:

```
Loading production environment (Rails 5.2.0)
irb(main):001:0>
```

In there, write these **4** lines and press enter (put your email and some secure password, you will use these credentials to login into Decidim super-admin:

```ruby
email = "my-admin@email"
password = "<a secure password>"
user = Decidim::System::Admin.new(email: email, password: password, password_confirmation: password)
user.save!
```

Write `quit` or press *CTRL+D* to exit the rails console.

If everything went fine, a very basic Decidim installation is ready to be shown to the world. We only are one step away from the glory, that is to configure an http web server to proxy our ruby application and handle the user petitions.

## 4. Installing Nginx

As a web server we will use Nginx. To install Nginx execute the next commands (the first installs nginx, the others enables the public ports in the firewall, otherwise our webserver won't be accessible):

```bash
sudo apt -y install nginx
sudo ufw allow http
sudo ufw allow https
```

The last 2 commands are to allow the firewall (if we have it activated) let pass the http/https connection to the server. If you don't use a firewall, you can skip them.

Nginx is a very fast and efficient web server but it doesn't handle Ruby applications by itself. We need and intermediary gateway for that, we will use [Passenger](https://www.phusionpassenger.com/library/walkthroughs/deploy/ruby/ownserver/nginx/oss/bionic/install_passenger.html).

I'll summarize here all the commands to [install Passenger in Ubuntu 18.04](https://www.phusionpassenger.com/library/walkthroughs/deploy/ruby/ownserver/nginx/oss/bionic/install_passenger.html) (follow the link to get into details):

```bash
sudo apt install -y dirmngr gnupg
sudo apt-key adv --keyserver hkp://keyserver.ubuntu.com:80 --recv-keys 561F9B9CAC40B2F7
sudo apt install -y apt-transport-https ca-certificates
sudo sh -c 'echo deb https://oss-binaries.phusionpassenger.com/apt/passenger bionic main > /etc/apt/sources.list.d/passenger.list'
sudo apt update
sudo apt install -y libnginx-mod-http-passenger
```

Next is to activate passenger, execute this (it's one line):

```bash
if [ ! -f /etc/nginx/modules-enabled/50-mod-http-passenger.conf ]; then sudo ln -s /usr/share/nginx/modules-available/mod-http-passenger.load /etc/nginx/modules-enabled/50-mod-http-passenger.conf ; fi
```

You can check if the file is created successfully by using `ls` on that file, it should be something similar to this:

```bash
decidim@decidim:~/decidim-app$ sudo ls /etc/nginx/conf.d/mod-http-passenger.conf
/etc/nginx/conf.d/mod-http-passenger.conf
```

For additional checks, restart nginx:

```bash
sudo service nginx restart
```

If you run the command `passenger-config validate-install` it should give you an answer like this:

```
decidim@decidim:~/decidim-app$ sudo /usr/bin/passenger-config validate-install
What would you like to validate?
Use <space> to select.
If the menu doesn't display correctly, press '!'

 ‣ ⬢  Passenger itself
   ⬡  Apache

-------------------------------------------------------------------------

 * Checking whether this Passenger install is in PATH... ✓
 * Checking whether there are no other Passenger installations... ✓

Everything looks good. :-)
```

If the output complains about having 2 copies of passenger installed, then passenger may be using the wrong copy of it.

Let's ensure everything is ok by editing the file `/etc/nginx/conf.d/mod-http-passenger.conf`:

```bash
sudo nano /etc/nginx/conf.d/mod-http-passenger.conf
```

And be sure that the line that contains `passenger_ruby` points to our `.rbenv` ruby folder, the whole file should look like this:

```nginx
### Begin automatically installed Phusion Passenger config snippet ###
passenger_root /usr/lib/ruby/vendor_ruby/phusion_passenger/locations.ini;
passenger_ruby /home/decidim/.rbenv/shims/ruby;
### End automatically installed Phusion Passenger config snippet ###
```

Once Nginx & Passenger are installed, we'll configure nginx to point http(s) request to our copy of Decidim. To do that, we need to create an Nginx configuration file and setup a new virtual host with our domain (ie: my-decidim.org):

Create/edit the new Nginx config file:

```bash
sudo nano /etc/nginx/sites-enabled/decidim.conf
```

Paste this inside (replace `my-decidim.org` with your own domain):

```nginx
server {
    listen 80;
    listen [::]:80 ipv6only=on;

    server_name my-decidim.org;
    client_max_body_size 32M;

    passenger_enabled on;
    passenger_ruby /home/decidim/.rbenv/shims/ruby;

    rails_env    production;
    root         /home/decidim/decidim-app/public;
}
```

Restart Nginx now:

```bash
sudo service nginx restart
```

**Done!** Decidim should be working now on our server, if you point your browser to your domain (ie: my-decidim.org) it will redirect you to the system admin interface (which is the web interface that will allow to create your first organization):

![System login](assets/decidim-system.png)

You can login into this administrator using the credentials you created when logged into the Rails console (`my-admin@email`).

But before to do that, there are somethings that should be configured, because, right now, our system is not capable yet of sending emails (which is a basic thing).

Continue this guide by setting up a [basic configuration](basic-config.md).
